---
layout: post
title:  "An Informal introduction to Digital Personal Systems"
author: Lucas
---
I am making this post because I was inspired by the experts from Walden that I read for one of my classes. When discussing these excerpts in class, I was confused by the various interpretations of his ideas that my other classmates had. One interpretation of living deliberately that I found troubling was that it is not a viable way to live in 2022. This pushed me to choose living deliberately as the topic for an opinion paper project. A relevant point that I made in this paper is that living deliberately does not have to be approached in the same way as Thoreau does and probably shouldn’t. Thoreau embarked on a radical personal experiment, but living deliberately can be done in many ways. At the same time that I was reading and discussing these excerpts, I noticed many ideas from Walden were relevant to my other classes. I found little relevance in the actual content covered in the classes, but rather the workflow of them. I find it interesting to look at how the structure and workflow of classes differ and how it impacts my understanding and performance in the respective classes. For a couple years I have been trying to create a personal system to dictate how I conduct work inside and outside of school. I had hoped that working on this would help me feel less overwhelmed by all of the information that I am exposed to. I gave up on the project a year ago because it was too complex and was causing me unnecessary stress. But the way that thoreau wrote and thought about his project has pushed me to do the same for mine. 
## Informal aspect
I want to cover why I decided to call this post an informal introduction. I called it an informal introduction because I wanted to establish a sort of emotional understanding of the project. This also hints that I intend to give a more formal introduction in the future, which is true. I want to better define the scope of my project using only evidence that I have in my head. As such, I will not be referencing outside sources and it will have a weak theoretical basis. I am also stating this way to help to differentiate the nomothetic from idiographic theories for various systems. Personal systems are idiographic in nature so it makes sense to start with this. 
## Goal: Explained
The goal of the project is simple: a system defined by me that dictates what I do. This is a broad goal and is probably more accurately classified as a dream. The goal has been a fairly constant concept in my head, but the actions I take towards it change quite frequently. These have ranged from various digital note taking workflows to esoteric diagrams tapped to my walls. All of these actions are in the ballpark of the goal, but converge more specifically on knowledge artifacts. 
I use the term knowledge artifacts to mean any persistent representation of knowledge. This could be the blog post I am writing now or baby block shape sorting toys. They all represent some part of human knowledge in a way that lasts longer than an instance. In other words, they exist externally from a person's mind. A conversation could contain a lot of knowledge, but is not a knowledge artifact since it exists only in the memories of its constituents. Another important point to make about knowledge artifacts is that they don’t represent any knowledge without human creation or explanation. A tree could be considered a knowledge artifact, but this requires that a person assigns meaning to that tree and explains it to themselves and or others. It is obvious that a tree will mean different things to everybody, but it is slightly less obvious for words on a page. After a bit of thinking, one can easily see that sentences have different meanings for every person that reads them and this is a key realization for understanding the project.

Academia has gone about standardizing knowledge transmission by creating distinct discourse groups where members must adhere to strict standards for communication. Teachers then transmit knowledge to the students through a standardized curriculum and textbook. The goal of the standardization is so the receivers of the knowledge artifacts can understand what it represents and integrate it into their existing knowledge base. In a sense, the goal of every academic system is to continually improve the flow of knowledge through its members. Any researcher would probably be disappointed in my broad oversimplification, but I think it is a useful way to think about it even though it is far from accurate. 

Now we have the idea that the system of academia is simply a system where the people transmit and receive knowledge and related artifacts from other people. For simplicity, let's assume that knowledge is never transmitted directly from person to person and must be passed on as an artifact. Now let's zoom in on me, a student in Academia. I don’t do much transmission of knowledge so let's assume I never transmit it for now. I receive knowledge from various sources, then I must understand and integrate the knowledge into my existing knowledge base. I am then scored on the understanding and integration. If I get stuck I will go and get other people to help me understand what the artifact is representing. I may also create my own knowledge artifacts or search the internet for other artifacts to help me understand. This is how I see my current role in academia. 

How does all this abstract nonsense relate back to the goal of the system I am trying to define? I believe that in my current position, the best starting place for my systems is an intermediate system for my knowledge artifacts. This system should dictate any processing I do on knowledge artifacts I receive and or create. If we restrict this system to only be used for my undergraduate years, it is basically just a study plan. However, I want this system to be applicable outside of school as well. 
## Inspiration from Walden
As Thoreau defined through his observations the necessities of life I want to define the necessities of knowledge through my experimentations with personal systems. I also want to find the luxurious aspects of many systems and remove them. While I believe that computers are a necessity, advances in user experience have created so many luxuries that I have noticed hindered my knowledge acquisition which I will cover in depth later. His extreme distrust in knowledge from elders has led me to stop looking for the perfect system to fit my needs and create my own from scratch. Where me and Thoreau differ is in our goals for living deliberately. Thoreau wants to find the core of life but I want to push the limits of personal knowledge in hopes that it may help me someday. 

## Outlook
In my next post I will cover some failed implementations of my system. And try to better understand why.
